one of my feelings about veganism that
maybe separates me from other people in
the movement is that I really feel and I
mean feel that veganism is ineluctably a
political movement even if you think
it's a lifestyle even if you think it's
a diet even if you think your personal
engagement with it is completely
non-political I think you can't escape
the fact that this is a political
movement but that I mean you don't we
leave a choice in the matter I'm not
saying it's up to you to decide whether
or not it's political matter I'm saying
there are people who are sleepwalking
through this people who are unaware that
their in a political movement there are
people were doing a very poor job of
advocating for and supporting it spread
that political but it nevertheless is a
political movement this reminds me of a
kind of funny um I don't know trope from
the game of thrones books known as song
of ice and fire one of the characters
Stannis his fundamental problem in life
is that he doesn't want to become king
he doesn't see himself as aspiring to
become king he sees himself as already
being the king of Westeros the king of
this kingdom but merely being surrounded
by people who fail to realize that on
the book he has a legal reason for
thinking that there was the laws of
succession it's not worth reflecting on
here but it's interesting because
politically it makes him stupid
inflexible harsh incapable of
negotiations be capable of coming to a
peace treaty but it means that he
regards everyone else's sleepwalking why
is it that everyone else around him
doesn't realize that he's already the
king he's not a rebel he's not fighting
a revolution he's not trying to take
over he already is the king it's just
bizarre to him that other people don't
realize that yet so as if the rest of
the world you know is populated by
sleepwalkers who he just has to wake up
for them to realize that he's already
the legitimate King and the only
possible idiot
okay in this you know fictional
political scenario some of you can
probably already guess why what I'm
raising this in parallel to veganism you
know there's a sense in which some of us
vegans the vegans who realize this is a
political movement this is intellect
ibly a political struggle even if it's
one that's stumbling along now even if
it's one where the majority of people
engage in it don't want it to be a
political movement they just want to
promote it as a lifestyle or a weight
loss diet they want to take it in some
other direction there's a sense in which
each side kind of regards the other is
sleepwalking this already is a political
movement you just don't realize it yet
you know and on a grander scale I think
vegans look around at the Society of
meters around us and we feel like
there's this tremendously powerful
tremendously important ethical truth
that we're all awake to that we're all
aware of that changes our lives forever
and our fellow human beings are
sleepwalking because they're you know
they're lining up in the same cafeteria
every day and eating meat they don't
need to the killing animals that kill in
themselves etc etc etc
I very much grew up in a culture and in
a formal political science education
that held up compromise and negotiation
as the highest virtues and that anyone
who is uncompromising was presumed to be
evil I know intransigent
counterproductive extremists I
definitely grew up in a context in
Canada maybe partly because Canada was
going through its own very subtle watch
a revolution with the attempts of Quebec
to separate and become a super country
that if only people could be reasonable
if only people could be more
compromising the world would have no
wars the world would have no tragedies
the world would have no violent
revolutions that somehow if only you
know Quebec could sit down to the table
at me halfway if only the labor unions
and the factory owners could sit down at
a table and compromise if only Russia
and the United States during the Cold
War if only the enemies of the world
could sit down in commbuys only we could
all be more compromising the world would
be a better and more peaceful place that
was maybe part of the moral tone of the
Cold War in Canada and probably reflects
the peculiar role Canada played as you
know a background assistance to the
United States Empire during the Cold War
but not quite a thrilled advocate for
Mary number but in veganism you know
we're in this realm where we can't
compromise you know we're in this realm
where no matter how polite we are about
it the fundamental truth is we feel that
we are a hundred percent right and the
meat eaters or a hundred percent wrong
we feel like we're awake to the truth
and the reality of what animal
exploitation is what factory farming is
etc and that everyone where everyone
else around us is sleepwalking and like
Stannis like the character from the book
game of thrones that puts you in a
terrible position where you can't really
negotiate a peace treaty you can't
really negotiate a final settlement
settlement there's no clear course of
action in terms of call for compromise
or cooperation with the other people the
people on the other side of the table
who you regard as being asleep to the
fundamental reality of the law